                            Charter Vs District


                    I have completed the analysis for the school district and doing so have come up with two observations. 
              The first observation was when you take the school types and seperate them and only compare the respective 
              type to itself the notion of a smaller school performing well because of budget doesnt display the same as
              when comparing the school types against eachother. The top five performing schools were all charter types 
              this is true but when you compare those five schools to eachother the schools with the best performance has 
              the second highest budget compared to the other five and the second highest amount of students and the lowest 
              performing school for the top five charter schools had the lowest amount of students and lowest budget. The 
              analysis that schools with less students and less budget per students does not hold well. This leads me to 
              believe that although budget and size of school do play a role, when it comes to charter to charter there 
              seems to be more happening than budget and size. Out of the eight charter schools two schools had less than 
              one thousand students only one made it to the top five schools. It would seem the charter schools may have 
              different curriculum and set performance standards that help nudge the students to better perform, that 
              combined with the size of classroom.
                  The second observation was according to the initial synopsis the lowest performing school would be the 
              school with the most students and the highest budget per student that was necessarily true either the 
              lowest performing school, Rodriguez High, did not have the most students it actually was the school with 
              the fourth most students leaving three schools with more total students performing better, the first school 
              with more students than Rodriguez high was Hernandez High with 636 more students furthermore out of all the
              lowest performing district type schools three of them had more than 4,500 students and they all came in top 
              fourth performing better than schools with less students. This holds true for the budget as well district 
              schools when compared to one another, the one with the highest budget does not get outperformed. This leads 
              me to believe that district schools with more students might actually perform better it could be that at 
              the district level the bigger the school the more curriculums and the more specialized programs are offered 
              helping students focus more in school.
                  To conclude my report when it comes to Charter schools compared to District schools it would seem that 
              the schools set performance standards and school practices also play a part in how the students perform in school.
              We can also reach out to the Wilson High Charter School and see what programs they are offering as they had the most 
              total students of all Charter schools and still made it to the top 5 performing schools.
